Cytomechanical measurements are important to unravel the influence of the biochemical composition of the plant cell wall on growth, morphogenesis, and stability of a plant. The profitability of whole branches of industry depends on plants, which ideally grow as fast and large as possible without loosing the strength to withstand destabilizing environmental influences. Pollen tubes provide a convenient system to study major aspects of cytomechanics. They grow extremely fast but expansion is restricted to the tip region, which facilitates the study of mechanical parameters as composition and properties of the cell wall at the apex and in the shank differ but can be compared in the same cell. The path of the pollen tube from the stigma to the ovary is full of obstacles because the pollen tube has to grow through a variety of the female tissues to reach the ovule and effect fertilization. Once an obstruction is sensed, it can be either avoided or penetrated, which involves mechanosensing, signal translation, internal physiological changes, and adaptation of the mechanical properties of the pollen tube. As a result, the pollen tube changes its growth direction or increases the pushing force, both of which are controlled by a fine-tuned interplay between turgor pressure and cell wall extensibility. In this chapter, we provide an overview of state-of-the-art methods to measure those two parameters, as well as an outlook on novel technical developments that will allow the precise evaluation of the mechanical properties of the cell wall along the pollen tube axis.