#Cellular Force Microscopy (CFM)

## General Considerations ##

Mechanical measurements of plant cells and tissues impose various technical challenges. The assessment of different parameters, such as turgor pressure, cell wall stiffness, or penetration forces, involve a wide range of forces from nN--mN and require a variety of measurement devices as discussed above. The topography of plant tissues makes it necessary to equip the force sensors with long probes and to have a wide z-positioning range to reach into the depression between adjacent turgid cells. A high degree of automation is important to create high-resolution stiffness maps and to measure a large number of samples. The cellular force microscope (CFM) combines the high level of automation and spatio-temporal resolution along with the versatility of classic microindentation systems that are able to measure in-plane elasticity, which is important to measure growth \ref{fig:CFM_system}a. The use of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS)-based force sensors allows measuring in locations that are difficult to reach with AFM cantilever probes \ref{fig:CFM_system}b and c. The CFM probes demonstrate negligible hysteresis over their full range of operation and are individually force-calibrated by the supplier (FemtoTools AG, Switzerland).  Custom-made software allows for real-time force and position control of the measurements.

First experiments using the CFM demonstrated that the method is suitable for high-resolution stiffness mapping on pollen tubes \cite{Felekis_2011} and onion epidermal cells \cite{Routier-Kierzkowska2012a}. In the latter study, a plasmolysed piece of onion epidermis was measured sequentially over several hours during recovery from plasmolysis and revealed changes in topography and stiffness with increasing turgor pressure.


##CFM Measurements on Pollen Tubes
Stiffness measurements taken under the conditions used by the CFM and other microindentation systems do not only reflect the mechanical properties of the cell wall alone but are strongly influenced by turgor pressure, cell and indenter geometry, as well as stresses in the cell wall prior to indentation. Hence, the measured values are referred to as the "apparent stiffness" \cite{Zamir2004}. First CFM experiments on pollen tubes were performed in the Grossniklaus and Nelson laboratories who developed this technology \cite{Felekis_2011, Vogler2013a}. CFM measurements on growing, fully turgid lily pollen tubes confirmed the apparent stiffness results from microindenter experiments showing a soft apical region and a gradual increase in stiffness that reached a plateau 20 µm behind the tip. Finite element method (FEM)-based modeling was applied to disentangle the effects of turgor pressure and cell wall elasticity by adjusting the material properties of a virtual cell wall until the modeled stiffness curve was in agreement with the measured values. Surprisingly, it was unnecessary to modify the elastic properties in the tip region to get an almost exact match of the steep decrease in the measured apparent stiffness towards the very tip of the pollen tube. In other words, the difference in apparent stiffness between the tip and the shank does not reflect the well-documented changes in cell wall composition but can be explained by the geometry of the cell and the contact angle between the probe tip and the cell surface \cite{Bolduc2006a, Vogler2013a, Routier-Kierzkowska2013a}.

Using an FEM-based modeling approach allows the unraveling of the effects of turgor pressure and cell wall stiffness without the necessity to measure turgor by another method, i.e., the pressure probe. However, the model relies on the assessment of several geometrical parameters, such as the initial stretch ratio, which is correlated to the wall stress under pressure prior to indentation. This can easily be measured by comparing the diameter of a pollen tube before and after plasmolysis. Cell wall thickness is another required parameter that is more difficult to measure. To get accurate values it is necessary to analyze and average pictures obtained by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), a difficult and labor-intensive method. However, because the cell wall shows local variation in thickness, it would be ideal to know the thickness at the position of indentation. A method to estimate cell wall thickness from apparent stiffness-indentation curves has been suggested by Forouzesh and colleagues \citet{Forouzesh2013a} but is not yet accurate enough and depends, at least partially, on the pressure state of the cell.



##Limitations of the CFM Approach
While the CFM has contributed significantly to the mechanical investigation of pollen tubes and other plant cells \cite{Vogler_2012,Weber_2015}, experimental challenges remain with regard to high-throughput measurements at the scale of individual cells. Firstly, ensuring sufficient substrate adhesion of the growing pollen tube is a major challenge for micro-indentation. While other cells, like yeast cells or oocytes, that exhibit isotropic or near-isotropic growth, can be immobilized by culturing them in solid growth medium \cite{De_2010}, by trapping in surface-patterned wells \cite{Ng_2007,Kailas_2009}, or by physical fixation through capillary aspiration \cite{Yu_Sun_2003}, the rapid and three-dimensional nature of pollen tube growth renders such immobilization techniques unusable. Secondly, under conventional in vitro growth conditions pollen tubes grow unorderly in all directions, leading to increased operational time to monitor the growth trajectory and to position the micro-indentor for measurements at the required location on the pollen tube \cite{Felekis_2015}. The random growth direction complicates the development of automated tools to pre-plan the position, number of measurement points, and trajectory of the micro-indentor, consequently lowering the measurement throughput.