#Cellular Force Microscopy (including RT-CFM) and Atomic Force Microscopy

## CFM Introduction (Dimitris' and Kuhlemeier's Papers) ##

Mechanical measurements of plant cells and tissues imposes  various technical challenges. The assessment of different parameters, such as turgor pressure, cell wall stiffness or penetration forces, involve a wide range of forces from nanoNewtons to miliNewtons and requested a set of  several devices as discussed above. The topography of plant tissues makes it necessary to equip the force sensors with long probes and to have a wide z-positioning range to reach into the inclinations between turgid cells. A high degree of automation is important to create high-resolution stiffness maps and to measure a large number of samples. The cellular force microscope (CFM) combines the high level of automation and resolution as provided by AFM with the versatility of classic microindentation systems being able to measure in-plane elasticity, which is important to measure growth. The use of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS)-based force sensors allow to measure tissue regions that are difficult to reach with cantilever probes. Custom-made software allows the control of the positioner and reacts on sensor feedback.

First experiments using the CFM demonstrated that the method is suitable for high-resolution stiffness mapping on onion epidermal cells. A plasmolysed piece of tissue was measured sequentially over several hours during recovery from plasmolysis and revealed changes in topography and stiffness with increasing turgor pressure \cite{Routier-Kierzkowska2012a}.

Stiffness measurements taken under the conditions used by the CFM and other microindentation systems do not only reflect the mechanical properties of the cell wall alone but are strongly influenced by turgor pressure, cell and indenter geometry as well as stresses in the cell wall prior to indentation. Hence, the measured values are referred to as the "apparent stiffness" \cite{Zamir2004}. A finite element method-based modeling approach enables disentangling the effects of turgor pressure and cell wall stiffness. In addition to measuring the apparent stiffness it relies on the assessment of several geometrical parameters, such as the initial stretch ratio, which is correlated to the wall stress under pressure prior to indentation. This can be easily measured by comparing the diameter of a pollen tube before and after plasmolysis. Cell wall thickness is more difficult to measure. To get accurate values it is necessary to analyse electron microscopy images.

##CFM measurements on pollen tubes
First experiments on pollen tubes were performed by \cite{Vogler2013a}. CFM measurements on growing, fully turgid lily pollen tubes confirmed the apparent stiffness results from microindenter experiments with a soft apical region and gradually increasing stiffness that reached a plateau 20 µm behind the tip. FEM-based modeling was applied to extract the values for turgor pressure and cell wall elasticity by adjusting the material properties of the virtual cell wall until the modeled stiffness curve was in agreement with the measured values. Surprisingly, it was unnecessary to modify the elastic properties in the tip region to get an almost exact match, displaying a steep decrease in the apparent stiffness towards the very tip. This means, in other words, that the stiffness difference between the tip and the shank do not reflect the well-documented changes in cell wall composition but can be explained exclusively by the geometry of the cell and the contact angle between the probe tip and cell surface \cite{Vogler2013a,Routier-Kierzkowska2013a,Bolduc2006a}.

##AFM measurements on pollen tubes

The first and only reported AFM studies on pollen tubes was from Wu et al. \cite{Wu_2008}. The surface morphology of Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) treated and control tubes of _Torenia fournieri_ were investigated by intermittent-contact mode imaging in air. The tubes were grown, chemical fixation and lyophilized by freeze drying before imaging. In the presence of IAA, the ultrastructure changed, subsequently modifying the cellulose microfibril content and orientation on the outer surface of the pollen tube, which they observed in the AFM scans at the tip and at the sub-apical region. They concluded that the microfibrils were in the form of a random network in both the apical and subapical regions of control tubes, while microfibrils were parallel to each other and predominately oriented 45 degrees to the longitudinal axis in the sub-apical region of IAA-treated tubes. 

Unlike \cite{Wu_2008} who imaged fixed tubes, we performed AFM measurements on living Arabidopsis and Lily pollen tubes in their native culture media. Both topographical features by intermittent-contact mode imaging and nano-indentation was performed. The presence of microfibrils was observed on the outer surface of both Arabidopsis and Lily tubes. The force indentation curves showed hysteretic behavior. 
Own results ( I dont think I have enough results to conclude anything significant, than to show some topography images and an example indentation curve)
- Topography 
- Indentation

##Limitations of the CFM approach
While the CFM has contributed significantly to mechanical investigation of single plant cells \cite{Vogler_2012,Weber_2015}, experimental challenges still remain in high-throughput measurements of the micromechanics of growing pollen tubes. Firstly, ensuring sufficient substrate adhesion of the growing pollen tube is a major challenge for micro-indentation. While cells, like yeasts or oocytes, that exhibit isotropic or near-isotropic growth, can be immobilized by culturing on solid growth medium \cite{De_2010}, or by trapping in surface-patterned wells \cite{Ng_2007,Kailas_2009} or physical fixation by capillary aspiration \cite{Yu_Sun_2003}, the rapid and three-dimensional nature of pollen tube growth renders such immobilization techniques unusable. Secondly, conventional _in vitro_ growth assays, lead to disordered growth of tubes in all directions, leading to increased operational time to monitor the growth trajectory of the tube and position the indentor for measurements at the required spot on the tube \cite{Felekis_2015}. The random tubular growth direction makes difficult the development of automated tools to pre-plan the position, number of measurement points and trajectory of the microindentor, consequently lowering the measurement throughput. 