#Conclusions and Further Developments
On its tortuous journey, which begins at the stigma and goes all the way to the ovule, the pollen tube receives and processes a variety of chemical and mechanical cues from the surrounding environment. While chemoattractants are perceived at a distance, the mechanical environment is only perceived when the pollen tube is in physical contact with the cell exerting the mechanical force. The counteracting mechanical forces generated by the pollen tube in response to the chemical and mechanical signals from the outside, is regulated by a complex feedback loop involving the cell’s internal machinery. The generation and regulation of internal turgor pressure and the spatio-temporal variation of cell wall stiffness are manifestations of this feedback mechanism. Only in the last decade, with the arrival of micromechanical probes and technologies, have the mechanical forces encountered and generated by the pollen tube been precisely quantified. Quantification of such cytomechanical parameters is essential to formulate better models for pollen tube growth and to gain insights into the interplay between the biochemical and mechanical properties of the cell wall during cellular growth and morphogenesis.

High-throughput measurements are a key requirement for a statistical analysis of the mechanical properties of single cells. In addition to increasing the throughput of measurements and data analysis using novel hardware and software tools, it is important that measurement devices can be precisely calibrated and traced to force standards. This is particularly important for the measurement of forces at nN to mN range, such that cytomechanical data can be compared across laboratories. Another technical challenge is the combination of intracellular physiological monitoring, e.g by using fluorescent sensors, and mechanical measurements to understand the interplay of biochemical and mechanical factors. Several questions concerning the mechanical basis of pollen tube morphogenesis remain and there is the need for advanced instrumentation to answer them in the future. For instance, oscillating turgor has been reported in pollen tubes \cite{12721859, Zonia_2006}, which can now be investigated by making precise, quantitative measurements using the micromechanical and LoC devices we described in this chapter. Moreover, the integration of knowledge about the biochemical composition and macromolecular arrangement of cell wall components, determined by immuno-cytochemistry \citep[reviewed in ][]{Mollet_2013}, TEM and AFM, with cytomechanical measurements, promises to yield fundamental insights into the mechanisms underlying the tip growth of pollen tubes, the fastest growing cells on our planet.