#General Force measurement approaches

##Measuring Turgor
Due to the lack of alternative methods, for a long time turgor has been estimated using the plasmolysis method \cite{deVries1884, Beck1929}. The osmolarity of the extracellular medium is increased until the retraction of the protoplast from the cell wall can be observed, allowing an estimation of the osmotic pressure inside the cell. This method is simple, non-invasive and allows a large number of measurements in a relatively short time. Living cells, however, tend to react to osmotic stress with osmoregulation, which means that the estimated osmolarity may differ from that in the unperturbed cell.

This problem has been overcome with the development of the pressure probe, an oil-filled capillary equipped with a pressure transducer, which is inserted into the cell \cite{Green1968, Husken1978, Tomos1999}. Turgor is measured directly by adjusting the pressure in the probe in order to keep the cell sap/oil meniscus at the plasma membrane, such that no sap enters the probe and no oil enters the cell. Although, the pressure probe  is the only direct method to measure turgor until present, it has the disadvantage of being invasive and tedious to use, especially on small cells. This limits the number of measurements that can be taken in a day. Both methods, incipient plasmolysis and the pressure probe have been applied to estimate turgor pressure in growing lily pollen tubes, delivering significantly different results \cite{Benkert1997, Pertl_2010}.


Ball tonometry is another method to estimate turgor. A cell is compressed with a large ball with a diameter between 30--50 µm. Since the cell wall is only a thin shell compared to the cell diameter, its influence can be neglected if the indentation is considerably larger than the cell wall thickness \cite{Lintilhac2000, Wei2001}. While this approach is fast and non-invasive, problems arise when the cell to be measured is small. Theoretically, it would be possible to miniaturize the setup but it is not quite clear to which extent the influence to cell wall elasticity would increase and could not be neglected anymore.

## Measuring Penetration Forces ##

Turgor pressure is not only the driving force for cell expansion but also generates the pushing force necessary for plant and fungal tip-growing cells to penetrate (or displace) obstacles. Penetration force measurement in fungal hyphae has a long tradition starting in the late 19th century by studying their ability of penetrating gold membranes of varying strength \cite{Miyoshi1895}. Later on more sophisticated methods, such as strain gauge \cite{Money2007}, optical wave guide \cite{Bechinger1999} and optical tweezers \cite{Wright2007}, were employed. Work on pollen tubes to measure penetrative forces were taken on only recently. A first attempt using agarose gels with zones of different stiffness as the mechanical obstacle revealed that actin filaments influence the behavior of poppy pollen tubes when hitting an obstacle. However, this assay did not quantify the penetration force \cite{Gossot2007}. The first quantitative assessment came from lab-on-a-chip experiments where *Camellia japonica* pollen tubes were forced to grow into narrow channels carved into PDMS with known mechanical properties. At the narrowest point of the channel the dilating force was about 15 µN \cite{SanatiNezhad2013b}.


##Indentation methods
Plant cell walls are complex composite materials consisting of cellulose, hemicelluloses, pectins and proteins. It is still under debate how exactly the individual components interact together to define the mechanical characteristics of the cell wall \cite{Cosgrove2016}. It is generally accepted, however, that the cellulose microfibrils are the load-bearing component, which are embedded in a more viscous pectin matrix. Hemicelluloses may be directly crosslinked to individual cellulose microfibrils and thus tether them together \cite{Hayashi_1989, Pauly1999a, Scheller2010}, or they may be covalently bound to the pectin network and connect individual cellulose microfibrils where they come close together in so-called biomechanical hotspots \cite{Park2012, Zhao2014a, Nili2015}. Although pollen tubes lack a classic, lignified secondary cell wall, they display a bi-layered cell wall with an outer layer dominated by pectins and an inner callose layer. In addition to this radial patterning biochemical composition of the cell wall changes along the longitudinal axis with a tip-region that consists mainly of methylated pectins. Through the action of pectin methyl esterases pectins get demethylated and consequently cross linked by Ca^2+^ in the sub apical region together with the appearance of crystalline cellulose. Further up the shank the deposition of callose is observed.  \citep[reviewed in ][]{Mollet2013}. High callose content and reduced cellulose accumulation, compared with other plant cells \cite{Rae_1985, Schlupmann1994}, nourished the idea that callose may be the main load-bearing component in pollen tube cell walls \cite{Parre2005a}.

To understand the mechanical control of pollen tube tip-growth, as well as shape-keeping it is necessary to measure the physical properties of the cell wall along the pollen tube axis. Different approaches have been tried to assess the mechanical properties of tip-growing cells. In order to be able to see local differences in cell wall properties, it is essential that the chosen method provides highly resolved positional data and must cover the proper force range. As the thickness of the cell wall is usually much smaller than the cell diameter, indentation methods have proven valuable to determine the mechanical properties of the cell wall.

What information results form indentation experiments depends on the  indentation depth as well as on the geometry and the size of the indenter. An indentation depth much smaller than the thickness of the cell wall mainly reveals the mechanical properties of the cell wall while at higher indentation depths the influence of turgor pressure increases. Equally, the influence of turgor decreases with decreasing indenter diameter. Taken together, a rather big indenter at low indentation depth would reveal in plane stresses of the cell wall, while a pointy probe, as they are frequently used in atomic force microscopy, would measure forces perpendicular to the plane of the wall.

For quite a while atomic force microscopy (AFM) has been used to picture the topography of plant cells \citep[reviewed in ]{Yarbrough2009}. However, the AFM can also be used to evaluate the mechanical properties of cells. After the use of the AFM as a material indenter has been proven useful in bacterial and animal cells, first attempts in plant cells included the study of the nano-mechanical properties of dead wood cells \cite{Clair_2003} and cultured cells of *Vitis vinifera* \cite{Lesniewska2004}. Recently, after a further improvement of the technology, further studies started to assess the mechanical properties of living and growing tissues by probing the shoot apical meristem (SAM) of *Arabidopsis*. Using a sharp, pyramidal inventor and indentation depths significantly smaller than the estimated cell wall thickness, which rendered the measurements insensitive to turgor pressure, Milani and collegues could show that the cells at the top of the SAM are stiffer than those at the flank \cite{Milani2011a}. Glueing large spheres to the AFM probe makes the measurements highly sensitive to turgor \cite{Peaucelle2011a}. Other studies were investigating the material properties of the cell wall in *Arabidopsis* culture cells \cite{Radotic2012} or the material plasticity along the *Arabidopsis* root \cite{Fernandes2012}.

Although modern AFM setups provide a larger range of forces (nanoNewtons to microNewtons) and measuring area, their strength lies in the measurement of very local nano-mechanical properties in the dimension of the indentation axis. To quantify the in-plane elasticity, which is influenced by the load bearing cellulose microfibrils, however, larger indentation depths are necessary. Hence, a lot of effort was invested to develop microindentation systems that combine the ability to non-invasively map the mechanical properties of living and growing cells with large indentation depths and force ranges.

The first and only reported AFM study on pollen tubes was from \citet{Wu_2008}. The surface morphology of Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) treated and control tubes of _Torenia fournieri_ were investigated by intermittent-contact mode imaging in air. The tubes were grown, chemically fixed and lyophilized by freeze drying before imaging. In the presence of IAA, the ultrastructure changed, subsequently modifying the cellulose microfibril content and orientation on the outer surface of the pollen tube, which they observed in the AFM scans at the tip and at the sub-apical region. They concluded that the microfibrils were in the form of a random network in both the apical and subapical regions of control tubes, while microfibrils were parallel to each other and predominately oriented 45 degrees to the longitudinal axis in the sub-apical region of IAA-treated tubes. 

Unlike Wu and colleagues \cite{Wu_2008} who imaged fixed tubes, we performed AFM measurements on living Arabidopsis and Lily pollen tubes in their native culture media. Changes can occur to the outer cell wall structure during fixation and lyophilization that maybe wrongly interpreted as the native state of surface texture of the cell wall. Both topographical features by intermittent-contact mode imaging and nano-indentation was performed. The presence of microfibrils was observed on the outer surface of both Arabidopsis and Lily tubes. In AFM scans of the topography of lily tubes, the microfibrils seemed to helically criss-cross perpendicular to the direction of growth. We did not observe any fibrillar structure oriented parallel to the growth direction. The direction of the underlying layers of microfibrils is currently not clear from the current images. Cosgrove reported a cross-laminate structure of microfibrils, and not helicoidal with small changes in angle, in sequential lamellae in onion epidermal cells \cite{Zhang_2016}. 

The force-indentation curves that we measured showed hysteretic behavior. The maximum force that could be applied with the cantilever tip (radius ~ 6-10 nm) before cell wall rupture was about 10 nanoNewtons. The maximum indendation depth was approximately 200 nm. The apparent cell wall loading (unloading) stifness was xx nN/nm (xxunload nN/m) at the shank area and yy nN/m (yyunload nN/nm) at the tip. Using a Hertzian-contact model, it is possible to extract a localized estimate of the cell wall's Young's modulus. Using the unloading part of the curve, the estimate of Young's modulus at the tip is xx MPa while at the shank is yy MPa.  

Own results ( I dont think I have enough results to conclude anything significant, than to show some topography images, and an example AFM indentation curve with the maximum load force in the order of 5-10 nanoNewtons and compare it to a hysteretic CFM curve)
- Topography 
- Indentation

Pioneering work was done by Anja Geitmann and co-workers. Using a microindentation approach they could show that poppy (*Papaver rhoeas*) pollen tubes show a gradient of cellular stiffness along the tube axis with a soft tip and a harder shank. Moreover, the shank was almost completely elastic whereas the apical region displayed considerable viscoelasticity \cite{Geitmann2004a}. Later, the stiffness gradient from the apex to the shank was confirmed in pollen tubes of lily. Additional experiments revealed that the cellular stiffness inn the apical region followed growth oscillations with increased stiffness at high growth rates and vice versa \cite{Zerzour2009} . Taken together, these findings fitted well with the fact that the pollen tube apex, where growth takes place after all, should be softer than the shank, which does not expand but has to resist tension forces created by turgor pressure. Differences in the biochemical composition of the cell wall in the tip region compared to the shank could explain the observed mechanical difference. Indeed it has been shown in pollen tubes of *Solanum chacoense* that reduced levels of both pectins and callose lead to a measurable reduction in cellular stiffness and increased viscoelasticity \cite{Parre2005, Parre2005a}. However, the above-mentioned studies don't take into account the influence of turgor pressure and the geometry of the pollen tube, which are important parameters as we will discuss in the next chapter.
