#How are Cytomechanical Parameters Measured?

##Measuring Turgor
Incipient plasmolysis was the very first technique developed to measure internal turgor \cite{deVries1884, Beck1929}. Due to the lack of alternative methods, for a long time turgor pressure has been estimated using this method. The osmolarity of the extracellular medium is increased until the retraction of the protoplast from the cell wall can be observed, allowing an estimation of the osmotic pressure inside the cell. This method is simple, non-invasive and allows a large number of measurements in a relatively short time. Living cells, however, tend to react to osmotic stress with osmoregulation, which means that the estimated osmolarity may differ from that in the unperturbed cell.

This problem has been overcome with the development of the pressure probe, an oil-filled capillary equipped with a pressure transducer, which is inserted into the cell \cite{Green1968, Husken1978, Tomos1999}. Turgor is measured directly by adjusting the pressure in the probe in order to keep the cell sap/oil meniscus at the plasma membrane, such that no sap enters the probe and no oil enters the cell. Although the pressure probe  is the only direct method to measure turgor until present, it has the disadvantage of being invasive and tedious to use, especially on small cells. This limits the number of measurements that can be taken in a day. Both methods, incipient plasmolysis and the pressure probe have been applied to estimate turgor pressure in growing lily pollen tubes, delivering significantly different results \cite{Benkert1997, Pertl_2010}.


Ball tonometry is another method to estimate turgor. A cell is compressed with a large ball with a diameter between 30--50 µm. Since the cell wall is only a thin shell compared to the cell diameter, its influence can be neglected if the indentation is considerably larger than the cell wall thickness \cite{Lintilhac2000, Wei2001}. While this approach is fast and non-invasive, problems arise when the cell to be measured is small. Theoretically, it would be possible to miniaturize the setup but it is not quite clear to which extent the influence of cell wall elasticity would increase and could not be neglected anymore.

## Measuring Penetration Forces ##

Turgor pressure is not only the driving force for cell expansion but also generates the pushing force necessary for plant and fungal tip-growing cells to penetrate (or displace) obstacles. Penetration force measurement in fungal hyphae has a long tradition starting in the late 19th century by studying their ability of penetrating gold membranes of varying strength \cite{Miyoshi1895}. Later on more sophisticated methods, such as strain gauge \cite{Money2007}, optical wave guide \cite{Bechinger1999}, and optical tweezers \cite{Wright2007}, were employed. Work on pollen tubes to measure penetrative forces were taken on only recently. A first attempt using agarose gels with zones of different stiffness as the mechanical obstacle revealed that actin filaments influence the behavior of poppy (*Papaver rhoeas*) pollen tubes when hitting an obstacle. However, this assay did not quantify the penetration force \cite{Gossot2007}. The first quantitative assessment came from lab-on-a-chip experiments, in which *Camellia japonica* pollen tubes were forced to grow into narrow channels carved into polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) with known mechanical properties. At the narrowest point of the channel, the dilating force was about 15 µN \cite{SanatiNezhad2013b}.


##Stiffness and Topography Mapping--Indentation Methods
Plant cell walls are complex composite materials consisting of cellulose, hemicelluloses, pectins, and proteins. It is still under debate how exactly the individual components interact to define the mechanical characteristics of the cell wall \cite{Cosgrove2016}. It is generally accepted, however, that the cellulose microfibrils are the load-bearing component, which are embedded in a more viscous pectin matrix. Hemicelluloses may be directly crosslinked to individual cellulose microfibrils, thus tethering them together \cite{Hayashi_1989, Pauly1999a, Scheller2010}, or they may be covalently bound to the pectin network and connect individual cellulose microfibrils where they come close together in so-called biomechanical hotspots \cite{Park2012, Zhao2014a, Nili2015}. Although pollen tubes lack a classic, lignified secondary cell wall, they display a bi-layered cell wall with an outer layer dominated by pectins and an inner callose layer. In addition to this radial patterning, the biochemical composition of the cell wall changes along the longitudinal axis with a tip-region that consists mainly of methylated pectins. Through the action of pectin methylesterases pectins get demethylated and consequently cross-linked by calcium in the sub apical region, where also crystalline cellulose can be detected. Farther behind the tip, deposition of callose is observed in the shank \citep[reviewed in ][]{Mollet_2013}. A high callose content and reduced cellulose accumulation, compared with other plant cells \cite{Rae_1985, Schlupmann1994}, nourished the idea that callose may be the main load-bearing component in pollen tube cell walls \cite{Parre2005a}.

To understand the mechanical control of pollen tube tip-growth, as well as how the pollen tube keeps its shape during growth, it is necessary to measure the physical properties of the cell wall along the pollen tube axis. Different approaches have been utilized to measure the mechanical properties of tip-growing cells. In order to be able to see local differences in cell wall properties, it is essential that the chosen method provides highly resolved spatial data and must cover the appropriate force range. As the thickness of the cell wall is usually much smaller than the cell diameter, indentation methods have proven valuable to determine the mechanical properties of the cell wall.

What information results from indentation experiments depends on the  indentation depth as well as on the geometry and the size of the indenter. An indentation depth much smaller than the thickness of the cell wall mainly reveals the mechanical properties of the cell wall, while at higher indentation depths, the influence of turgor pressure increases. Equally, the influence of turgor decreases with decreasing indenter diameter. Taken together, a rather big indenter at low indentation depth would reveal in plane stresses of the cell wall, while a pointy probe, as they are frequently used in atomic force microscopy (AFM), would measure forces perpendicular to the plane of the cell wall.

Pioneering work in this field was performed in the Geitmann laboratory. Using a microindentation approach, they could show that poppy pollen tubes have a gradient of cellular stiffness along the tube axis, with a soft tip and a harder shank. Moreover, the shank was almost completely elastic whereas the apical region displayed considerable viscoelasticity \cite{Geitmann2004a}. Later, the stiffness gradient from the apex to the shank was confirmed in pollen tubes of lily. Additional experiments revealed that the cellular stiffness in the apical region followed growth oscillations with increased stiffness at high growth rates and vice versa \cite{Zerzour2009} . Taken together, these findings fitted well with the fact that the pollen tube apex, where growth takes place, should be softer than the shank, which does not expand but has to resist tension forces created by turgor pressure. Differences in the biochemical composition of the cell wall in the tip region compared to the shank could explain the observed mechanical difference. Indeed, it has been shown in pollen tubes of *Solanum chacoense* that reduced levels of both pectins and callose lead to a measurable reduction in cellular stiffness and increased viscoelasticity \cite{Parre2005, Parre2005a}. However, the above-mentioned studies did not take into account the influence of turgor pressure and the geometry of the pollen tube, which are important parameters as we will discuss below.

More recently, AFM has been utilized to visualize the topography of plant cells \citep[reviewed in ]{Yarbrough2009}. However, the AFM can also be used to evaluate the mechanical properties of cells. After the use of the AFM as a material indenter has been proven useful in bacterial and animal cells, first attempts in plant cells included the study of the nano-mechanical properties of dead wood cells \cite{Clair_2003} and cultured cells of *Vitis vinifera* \cite{Lesniewska2004}. Recently, after a further improvement of the technology, studies have started to assess the mechanical properties of living and growing tissues by probing the shoot apical meristem (SAM) of *Arabidopsis*. Using a sharp, pyramidal indentor and indentation depths significantly smaller than the estimated cell wall thickness, which rendered the measurements insensitive to turgor pressure, Milani and colleagues could show that the cells at the top of the SAM are stiffer than those at the flank \cite{Milani2011a}. Gluing large spheres to the AFM probe makes the measurements highly sensitive to turgor \cite{Peaucelle2011a}. Other AFM studies investigated the material properties of the cell wall in *Arabidopsis* culture cells \cite{Radotic2012} or the material plasticity along the *Arabidopsis* root \cite{Fernandes2012}.

Although modern AFM setups provide a larger range of forces (pN--µN) and measuring area (up to a few mm), their strength lies in the measurement of very local nano-mechanical properties along the indentation axis. To quantify the in-plane elasticity, which is influenced by the load bearing cellulose microfibrils, however, larger indentation depths are necessary. Hence, a lot of effort has been invested to develop microindentation systems that combine the ability to non-invasively map the mechanical properties of living and growing cells with large indentation depths and force ranges.

The first and only reported AFM study on pollen tubes was by Wu and colleagues \citet{Wu_2008}. The surface morphology of _Torenia fournieri_ pollen tubes treated with the auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) were investigated by intermittent-contact mode imaging in air. The pollen tubes were grown, chemically fixed and lyophilized by freeze-drying before imaging. In the presence of IAA, the ultrastructure changed, leading to a modification of cellulose microfibril content and orientation on the outer surface of the pollen tube, which was observed by AFM at the tip and the sub-apical region. The authors concluded that the cellulose microfibrils were in the form of a random network in both the apical and subapical regions of control pollen tubes, while microfibrils were parallel to each other and predominately oriented 45 degrees to the longitudinal axis in the sub-apical region of IAA-treated pollen tubes.