#Improvements

Several improvements have been proposed to overcome the aforementioned challenges to increasing the throughput of micro-indentation. The resulting data collection efficiency will enable generation of statistically relevant micromechanical datasets to overcome the inherent biological heterogeneity within the cell population for deciphering the complex chemo-mechanical processes involved in the fast tip growth in pollen tubes. 

##Microchannel Guidance
Microfluidics has emerged as a powerful technology platform to isolate and chemo-mechanically probe individual cells \cite{Nilsson_2009}. Cytomechanical studies typically involve optical monitoring of cellular deformation subject to external forcing (for eg., by fluid-driven cell loading onto narrow constrictions \cite{Di_Carlo_2012}, by electro-deformation with non-uniform electric fields \cite{Engelhardt_1988}, etc). Such on-chip technology can also produce high-throughput micromechanical assays using patterned 2D array of mechanoprobes \cite{Sniadecki_2007,Favre_2011}. While the typical micron-sized single cell, like erythrocytes or 3T3 cells, can now be mechanically probed using the above mentioned techniques, it is difficult to apply such immobilization and force measurement methods to pollen tubes as their cell body can extend over several millimeters with geometric aspect ratios of 10,000:1  or more. Another critical issue that arises when using on-chip or multiple force actuators is the difficulty in force calibration at these cellular ranges of nano- to microNewtons \cite{Kim_2011}. Furthermore, the use of flexible materials such as PDMS, which is quite common in microfluidic technologies, or the use of magnetic or piezoelectric materials as actuators, can result in actuator hysteresis and nonlinear response which can compromise quantitative cytomechanical assays by convolving with the actual cellular mechanical response. The need for well-calibrated mechanical assays incoporating microfludic technologies is paramount. 

Recently, microfluidic phenotyping assays have been demonstrated for cells exhibiting polarized growth such as neuronal axons, filamentous fungal hyphae and pollen tubes \cite{Taylor_2005,Geng_2015,Agudelo_2013}. The reported Lab-on-a-Chips use microchannels to guide these tip-growing regions by isolating them from the rest of the cell body. To increase the measurement efficacy of the CFM micromechanical assay, we demonstrated the use of an integrated microfluidic-CFM platform that allows for high-throughput germination, growth and uni-directional guidance, and micromechnical measurements of individual pollen tubes \cite{Shamsudhin2016}. The chip has a loading and germination reservoir for the pollen grains, which is surrounded by dozens of collinear microchannels. These channels guide the growing pollen tubes uni-directionally, with vertical and lateral confinement enabling long-term growth observations without the need for active z-focusing of the microscope objective. The chip has an open architecture, which allows it to be integrated with the CFM indentor probe. The pollen tubes after growing in the microchannels exit the chip and grow on the open glass slide, while fully immersed in the growth medium. The microchannel-confined growth resulted in the tubes emerging and growing straight out of the channels for several hundreds of microns without deviations in growth directions. This allows for faster CFM tip positioning and measurements. Additionally, the vertically-confined growth in the microchannels increase the adhesion of the pollen to the substrate enhancing the robustness of micro-indentation. 

The micro-indentation measurements on the integrated microfluidic-CFM system have confirmed the previously reported gradient in apparent stiffness along the length. The measurements identified two different states of apparent stiffness corresponding to growing and non-growing (naturally growth-arrested) tubes. While growing tubes exhibited a mean loading stiffness of 2.20 N/m while the non-growing tubes exhibited 0.69 N/m. It is well-known that in microNewton range of forces and microns of indentation depth applied by the CFM probes, the apparent stiffness is affected by the internal turgor pressure of the cells \cite{Weber_2015}. While it is a reasonable assumption that non-growing tubes may have lower turgor pressure \cite{Geitmann_2004}, states of modified cell-wall biochemistry cannot be ruled out as pressure-probe measurements on lily tubes have not found a correlation between growth rates and internal turgor pressure \cite{Benkert_1997}. 

##Real-time Computer Vision
In optical and mechanical phenotyping assays, the ability to monitor individual pollen tube growth trajectories is crucial. The naturally three-dimensional and disordered growth of pollen tubes increases the time and complexity of optical measurements, as the operator has to constantly refocus in the z-plane to keep the tube in focus for long-term measurements. Additionally, the entangled growth makes it difficult to identify one tube from the other. Currently tube identification is mostly done manually, but a software algorithm called the fluorescent multi-pollen trajectory tracker was implemented by the group of Palanivelu as part of the Bioinformatics Toolset of the Pollen Research Coordination Network \cite{Cheung_2013}. This is primarily a tool for data post-processing and cannot identify the pollen tube trajectory in real-time. We demonstrated a robotic platform which utilized computer vision, for real-time tracking of pollen tubes and for control of the microindentor probe \cite{Felekis_2015}. In addition, the real-time system allowed for image mosaicing, that allows high resolution large workspace images to accomdate pollen tubes that range from several micrometers to tens control  of millimeters in length. This mosaic stitching is made possible with a fixed camera-lens system and a moveable sample holder mounted on a dual-stage millimeter range positioner. For more details on  the hardware and software algorithm, the reader is referred to \cite{Felekis_2015}.

##2-axis Force Sensors

The gradient of apparent stiffness measured along the tube length, in the apical region, has been attributed to a cell wall biochemical gradient \cite{Geitmann_2004a,Chebli_2012}, an effect of geometry and non-normal surface indentation \cite{Vogler_2012} or a convolution of both the previously mentioned effects \cite{Shamsudhin2016,Shamsudhin2016a}. The use of multi-axis force sensors may allow the deconvolution of these two effects. The design, fabrication and calibration of multi-axis microNewton force sensors have been reported in the literature \cite{Beyeler_2009,Muntwyler_2009}. We highlight the preliminary results of micro-indentation performed on lily pollen tubes with a 2-D force sensor \cite{Burri2016a}. The sensor converts the axial and lateral force at the probe tip to an independent change in deflection of orthogonal comb drives (Fig xx.c). The comb drives convert the displacement change to a differential change in capacitance that can be read out using on-board electronics. During vertical indentation of the pollen tube, both vertical and lateral forces are simultaneously detected in the region from the very apex of the tube to four microns along the tube length. No measurable lateral forces were observed beyond this area. The measurement of lateral forces at the tip dome is an indication of a non-normal contact angle. These promising results on the use of 2-D sensors is currently being pursued further. 

