#Introduction
On their way to the ovule, pollen tubes face many biophysical interactions (Figure~\ref{fig:forces}). Mechanical forces already play a role in the very first steps of pollination. When the pollen grain lands on the stigma, strong adhesion between the grain and a papilla cell of the stigma is necessary for successful germination of the pollen tube. Adhesion differs between compatible and incompatible pollen grains \cite{Luu_1999}. Once germinated, the pollen tube grows through the style towards the ovary. In plants with a solid style, like *Arabidopsis* (*Arabidopsis thaliana*) and the majority of flowering plants, the pollen tube first penetrates a papilla cell and then navigates through a maze of female cells within the transmitting tract before leaving this tissue and growing along the funiculus towards the micropylar opening of the ovule. Within the transmitting tract pollen tubes forge their paths between the female cells but they can also penetrate cells and grow between the cell wall and the plasma membrane or even within the cell wall \cite{ELLEMAN_1992, Jiang2005}. The situation presents itself totally different in plants with hollow styles, such as lilies (*Lilium longiflorum*) \cite{Jauh_1996}, lemon (*Citrus limon*) \cite{Ciampolini_1981}, and bean (*Phaseolus acutifolius*) \cite{Lord_1986}. In this case, the pollen tubes adhere to and grow along the transmitting tract epidermis that lines the inner part of the style \cite{Mollet_2000a, Park_2000a, Chae_2007}. While chemoattractants guide the pollen tubes at various steps of their journey \cite{Hulskamp_1995, 11003848, Kim_2003, 16595022, Okuda_2009}, it is mechanosensing that makes them aware of obstacles and controls whether they penetrate a cell wall or avoid it by changing growth direction to skirt the obstruction.

Cytomechanical studies have been conducted for more than a century but progress in this field was very slow for many decades. Over the last twenty years, however, there has been an explosion of publications dealing with biomechanical questions at the tissue as well as at the cellular level. One reason for this increased research activity was the improvement of the instrumentation, such as the development of miniaturized, extremely sensitive force sensors and precise positioning systems required to measure the small forces that are exerted by living biological samples.

But why is it interesting at all to study biomechanics? Naively, one would assume that the biomechanical properties of individual cells or tissues are only important to define the shape and size of the resulting organism. Although this is one part of the story, there is much more to it. Apart from the final form, mechanical signals can influence the identity of cells and tissues as well as the stability of an organism. Just to mention a few examples, mechanical disturbances can alter the gene expression patterns and interfere with morphogenesis during embryo development \cite{25512299}. Moreover, the magnitude and direction of the forces acting on stem cells influence their differentiation fate \cite{26350507}, and tumor cells have been shown to possess different mechanical properties than their normal counterparts \cite{Nagelkerke_2015}.

Since plants are mostly unable to escape unfavorable conditions they may be even more prone to respond to mechanical triggers or react to environmental stresses with the modulation of the mechanical properties of their cells. Under insect attack, leaves can become tougher and thus less attractive to herbivores \cite{Dimarco2012a}. Agriculture and the dairy industry are struggling with diverse problems that are based on biomechanics. For instance, reduction of the lignin content in maize has a direct implication for the profitability in dairy production. The _brown midrib_ mutant has a lower lignin content, which leads to a better digestibility and, therefore, higher production of milk in dairy cattle \cite{Saunders_2015, Vanderwerff_2015}. The downside of this is that the mutant *brown midrib* maize plants are more susceptible to lodging.
Crop lodging is a general problem and can dramatically reduce yield under unfavorable weather conditions, simply because the plant stems are not stable enough \cite{Berry_2006}. Up to this day, the countermeasure to this threat is to produce shorter plants, either by breeding or through the use of growth regulators \cite{FLINTHAM_1997, Crook_1995}. A better understanding of the mechanical properties of individual cell wall components could help to develop more stable plants that reach their full yield potential.

The mechanical properties of plant tissues or, even more so, entire plants result from a complex interplay between macromolecules that build the cell wall--the exoskeleton of the plant cell--, turgor pressure, and mechanical interactions between neighboring cells. To gain a basic understanding of how these individual components affect cytomechanics in growing tissues we need to study simplified cases. Tip growth is an extreme form of polarized cell growth, which occurs in algae, fungi, animals, and plants. Tip-growing cells play pivotal roles in the life style of those organisms employing it. Our brains would not function without the billions of dendrites and axons, formed by tip growth, that connect our neurons. Fungal hyphae can spread over incredible areas and are among the largest organisms on our planet \cite{Smith_1992, Ferguson_2003}. They can penetrate host cell walls and form haustoria, specialized feeding structures to acquire nutrients from the host cell \cite{P_rez_de_Luque_2013, Yoshida_2016}. Plant root hairs are essential to guarantee sufficient supply with water and nutrients by tremendously increasing the root surface \cite{Nye_1966}. Arguably the most amazing cells, though, are pollen tubes. Their sole function is to deliver the male gametes to the ovule to ensure double fertilization, which they do by growing at incredible speeds to enormous lengths, reaching length-to-diameter ratios far beyond 1000:1.

The pollen tube is an especially well-suited model to study the mechanical aspects of growth, because it is a single cell and no effects of neighboring cells have to be taken into account. The fact that cell expansion is restricted to the apex allows the direct comparison of the mechanical properties of this highly dynamic region with more proximal parts in the shank, where the cell wall does not change anymore. Furthermore, the biochemical composition of the wall changes along the pollen tube axis and can be assessed using cytological methods \citep[reviewed in ][]{Mollet_2013}, allowing, in turn, the measurement of different, well-defined composite cell wall materials in a single cell. Cell expansion is a complex process involving the fine-tuned interplay between a driving force that increases the volume of the cell and a containment that limits this expansion. Turgor pressure, the cell's internal hydrostatic pressure, is the driving force of cell expansion. The surrounding cell wall controls expansion by loosening and deformation concomitant with the incorporation of new cell wall material to reinforce the weakened areas. Where exactly pectins and other materials are deposited via exocytosis--in a subapical annular zone behind or at the extreme apex--is still under debate \cite{Bove_2008, Zonia_2008, Rounds_2014}.

In this chapter, we will provide an overview of  existing approaches to quantify the biomechanical properties of growing pollen tubes, with a special focus on indentation methods. Along with the development of measuring methods, there is growing need for automation, increase in throughput, precise calibration, and reproducibility of measurements across research laboratories, as most of the methods depend on statistical evaluation and/or modeling of the measurements. For this reason, we also provide an outlook on potential future developments and alternative approaches to unravel the secrets of pollen tube growth mechanics.