#Introduction
Cytomechanical studies have been undertaken for more than a century but progress in this field was smoldering through many decades. In the last twenty years, however, the scientific community has seen an explosion of publications dealing with biomechanical questions at the tissue as well as at the cellular level. One reason for this increased research activity was the improvement of the instrumentation, such as miniaturized, extremely sensitive force sensors and precise positioning systems required to measure the tiny forces that are exerted by living biological samples.

But why is it interesting at all to study biomechanics? Naively, one would assume that the biomechanical properties of individual cells or tissues are only important to define the shape and size of the resulting organism. Although this is one part of the story, there is much more to it. Apart from the final form, mechanical signals can influence the identity of cells and tissues as well as the stability of an organism. A few examples: Mechanical disturbances can alter the gene expression patterns and interfere with morphogenesis during embryo development \cite{25512299}. The magnitude and direction of the forces acting on stem cells influence their differentiation fate \cite{26350507}. Tumor cells have been shown to possess different mechanical properties than their normal counterparts \cite{Nagelkerke_2015}.

Since plants are mostly unable to escape unfavorable conditions they may be even more prone to respond to mechanical triggers or react to environmental stresses with the modulation of their mechanical properties. Under Insect attack leaves can become tougher and thus, less attractive for herbivores \cite{Dimarco2012a}. Agriculture and the dairy industry are struggling with diverse problems that are based on biomechanics. Reduction of the lignin content in maize, for example, has a direct implication for the profitability in dairy production. The brown midrib mutation has a lower lignin content, which leads to a better digestibility and, therefore, higher production of milk in dairy cattle \cite{Saunders_2015, Vanderwerff_2015}. The downside of this is that the mutant maize plants are more susceptible to lodging.
Crop lodging is a general problem and can locally reduce yield dramatically under unfavorable weather conditions, simply because the plant stems are not stable enough \cite{Berry_2006}. Up to this day, the countermeasure to this threat is to shorten the plants, either by breeding or by the use of growth regulators \cite{FLINTHAM_1997, Crook_1995}. A better understanding of the mechanical properties of individual cell wall components could help to develop more stable plants that reach their full yield potential.

The mechanical properties of plant tissues or, even more so, entire plants result from a complex interplay between macromolecules that build the cell wall--the plant cell's exoskeleton--, turgor pressure and the mechanical interactions between neighboring cells. To gain a basic understanding of how individual components affect cytomechanics in growing tissues we need to study simplified cases. Tip growth is an extreme form of polarized cell growth, which occurs in algae, fungi and plants. Tip-growing cells play pivotal roles in the life style of those organisms employing it. Fungal hyphae can spread over incredible areas and are among the largest organisms on the planet \cite{Smith_1992, Ferguson_2003}. In the form of haustoria they even penetrate host cells \cite{P_rez_de_Luque_2013, Yoshida_2016}. Plant root hairs are essential to guarantee sufficient supply with water and nutrients by increasing the root surface tremendously \cite{Nye_1966}. Arguably the most amazing cells, though, are pollen tubes. Their only function is to deliver the male gametes to the ovule to ensure double fertilization and this they do by growing at incredible speeds to enormous lengths, reaching length-to-diameter ratios far beyond 1000:1.

The pollen tube is an especially well-suited model to study the mechanical aspects of growth, because it is a single cell and no effects of neighboring cells have to be taken into account. The fact that cell expansion is restricted to the apex allows the direct comparison of the mechanical properties of this highly dynamic region with parts further up the shank where the cell wall is not changing anymore. Furthermore, the biochemical composition of the wall changes along the pollen tube axis and can be assessed with cytological methods \citep[reviewed in ]{Mollet_2013}, which in turn allows the measurement of different, well-defined composite cell wall materials within a single cell. Cell expansion is a complex process involving the fine-tuned interplay between a driving force that increases the volume of the cell and a containment that limits this expansion. Turgor pressure, the cell's internal hydrostatic pressure is the driving force of cell expansion. The surrounding cell wall controls expansion by yielding and the continuous incorporation of new cell wall material to reinforce the weakened wall areas. Where exactly pectins are deposited via exocytosis--in a subapical annular zone behind or at the extreme apex--is still under debate \cite{Bove_2008, Zonia_2008, Rounds_2014}.

On their way to the ovule pollen tubes face manifold biophysical interactions. Mechanical forces already play a role in the very first step of pollination. When the pollen grain lands on the stigma strong adhesion between the grain and the stigmatic cell is necessary for successful germination of the pollen tube, which is usually only the case for compatible pollen \cite{Luu_1999}. Once germinated, the pollen tube grows down the style towards the ovary. In plants with a solid style, like *Arabidopsis* (*Arabidopsis thaliana*), the pollen tube first has to penetrate a stigmatic cell and then navigate through a maze of female cells within the transmitting tract before leaving this tissue again and grow along the funiculus to the micropylar opening of the ovule. Within the transmitting tract pollen tubes find their ways between the female cells but they can also penetrate cells and grow between the cell wall and the plasma membrane or even within the cell wall \cite{ELLEMAN_1992}. The situation presents itself totally different in plants with hollow styles, such as lilies (*Lilium longiflorum*). In this case, the pollen tubes adhere to and grow along the transmitting tract epidermis that lines the inner part of the style \cite{Mollet_2000a, Park_2000a, Chae_2007}. While chemoattractants lure the pollen tubes towards their destination \cite{11003848, 16595022, Okuda_2009}, it's mechanosensing that make them aware of obstacles and let them decide if they want to go with the head through the wall by penetrating a cell or rather choose an avoidance strategy, change growth direction and skirt the obstruction.

In this chapter, we would like to give an overview of  existing approaches to quantify the biomechanical properties of growing pollen tubes, with a special focus on indentation methods. Along with the actual measuring methods there is growing need for automation and increase in throughput as most of the methods depend on statistical evaluation of the measurements. For this reason we also provide an outlook on potential further developments and alternative approaches to unravel the secrets of pollen tube growth mechanics.